README.md, before:

## A command line Battleship game, in Scala

### Rules
This is a two-player game. Each player has a 10x10 canvas and four ships to place, each of a different type:

- 1 x submarine (1 cell on the canvas)
- 1 x destroyer (2 cells)
- 1 x cruiser (3 cells)
- 1 x battleship (4 cells)

A ship can be placed horizontally or vertically, but not diagonally. In addition, no ships can be in adjacent cells on the canvas.

Once placed, the players can attack the other player's canvas by issuing coordinates. The player wins by being the first to take down all the ships on the other player's canvas. (The attack functionality is currently in development.)

### How to run
Make sure Scala 2.13 and SBT v1.4.7 is installed. Next, clone this repository locally.

From the project root:

`sbt run`

### Game commands
The canvas looks like this:  

<pre>
    A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  
 1  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 2  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  
 3  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 4  0  1  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 5  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 6  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 7  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0  
 8  0  1  1  1  0  0  0  1  0  0  
 9  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0  
10  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0
</pre>
where a 0 represents an empty cell and a 1 represents a placed ship. Each player starts with an empty canvas only of 0s. As each ship is placed, the cells where those ships occupy become 1s.


To make a new canvas:   `M`

To place your 1 by 1 submarine: `P X1 Y1 X2 Y2` where X1=X2 and Y1=Y2. For example: `P A 1 A 1`

To place your 2 by 1 destroyer, 3 by 1 cruiser and 4 by 1 battleship: `P X1 Y1 X2 Y2`, for example: `P H 7 H 10` for the 4 by 1 battleship. Each ship can be horizontal or vertical, but not diagonal. 

Ships cannot be in adjacent cells.

<br />
The attack functionality is in development.

Commit message:

Update README with rules for the attack phase

README.md, after:

## A command line Battleship game, in Scala

### Rules
This is a two-player game. Each player has a 10x10 canvas and four ships to place, each of a different type:

- 1 x submarine (1 cell on the canvas)
- 1 x destroyer (2 cells)
- 1 x cruiser (3 cells)
- 1 x battleship (4 cells)

A ship can be placed horizontally or vertically, but not diagonally. In addition, no ships can be in adjacent cells on the canvas.

Once placed, the players can attack the other player's canvas by issuing coordinates. The player wins by being the first to take down all the ships on the other player's canvas. (The attack functionality is currently in development.)

### How to run
Make sure Scala 2.13 and SBT v1.4.7 is installed. Next, clone this repository locally.

From the project root:

`sbt run`

### Game commands
The canvas looks like this:  

<pre>
    A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  
 1  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 2  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  
 3  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 4  0  1  1  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 5  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 6  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  
 7  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0  
 8  0  1  1  1  0  0  0  1  0  0  
 9  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0  
10  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  1  0  0
</pre>
where a 0 represents an empty cell and a 1 represents a placed ship. Each player starts with an empty canvas only of 0s. As each ship is placed, the cells where those ships occupy become 1s.


* To make a new canvas:   `M`

* To place your 1 by 1 submarine: `P X1 Y1 X2 Y2` where X1=X2 and Y1=Y2. For example: `P A 1 A 1`

* To place your 2 by 1 destroyer, 3 by 1 cruiser and 4 by 1 battleship: `P X1 Y1 X2 Y2`, for example: `P H 7 H 10` for the 4 by 1 battleship. Each ship can be horizontal or vertical, but not diagonal. 

  Ships cannot be in adjacent cells.

* To attack a coordinate: `A X Y` e.g. `A B 1`

Below is what the board looks like during the attack phase:
<pre>
    A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J
 1  o  -  -  -  -  -  X  X  X  -
 2  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
 3  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
 4  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
 5  -  -  o  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
 6  -  -  -  -  -  o  -  -  -  -
 7  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  o  -
 8  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
 9  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
10  X  -  o  -  -  -  X  -  -  -
</pre>

where `X` represents a hit and `o` represents a miss.
